This is a class for computing (asymmetric) MT2 using the bisection method.
Created: October 17, 2014
Author: Christopher Lester
Maintainers: Christopher Lester (lester@hep.phy.cam.ac.uk) and Benjamin Nachman (bnachman@cern.ch)

*****Introduction

MT2 was first introduced in arXiv:9906349 as a generalization of the transverse mass MT to cases in which there is more than one missing particle in the final state.  Since its inception, there have been several developments leading to its wide use in phenomenological studies and experimental searches and measurements.  One potential drawback of MT2 is that unlike MT, it does not have a close-form expression.  Instead, it is a minimization over the allocation of momenta amongst all the hypothesized missing particles.  In some regimes, there are analytic formulae for the event-by-event value or at least the kinematic maximum ('endpoint').  Many calculators exist (see http://www.hep.phy.cam.ac.uk/~lester/mt2/ for instance) with various levels of speed and precision.  In terms of speed, precision, and simplicity, the best calculator on the market is described in arXiv:0810.5178 which takes advantage of the geometry of MT2 to do a 1D bisection.  This package generalizes this result to the case in which the missing particles do not have the same hypothesized mass.  This 'asymmetric MT2' is gaining wide use in experimental searches and up until now, there have been only general purpose numerical calculators for its computation.  This package uses a 1D bisection to quickly compute the value of (asymmetric) MT2.  There are other innovations that also increase the speed and precision over the methods in arXiv:0810.5178.  

For more detail on the algorithm and performance, please see "Bisection-based asymmetric MT2 computation: a higher precision calculator than existing symmetric methods", arXiv:1411.4312 (and if you use the tool, please cite this paper).

If you have comments/questions/suggestions, please email the maintainers:

Christopher Lester (lester@hep.phy.cam.ac.uk) and Benjamin Nachman (bnachman@cern.ch)

Enjoy!

*****Organization
     
The philosophy of this package is two-fold:

1) Provide a fast and reliable calculator for (asymmetric) MT2 which is independant of ROOT (and in particular, MINUIT)

2) Provide an interface to the ROOT-independant code for easy computations in C++ and python

To this end, the code that most users will need are found in

TestC++

or 

TestPython

which contains very simple code for running the calculator.  If you do not want to use ROOT, then you can directly use the header files in src. 